What is up, YouTube? If I've learned anything from my career, it's that it doesn't matter how perfect you eat or how hard you train, if you don't have a strong mind, then you're not going to get where you want to be. You're not going to become the best version of yourself. So, I put together seven tips for a bulletproof mindset, and it's specifically a bulletproof mindset, not success, because I've realized that it's not that hard to get successful, but you can destroy your mind and your life in the process, and to win something one time is hard, but to win it two, three, four, five, six times, to create a career that lasts a lifetime, that takes resilience, and it takes a bulletproof mindset. So, I'm going to run through my seven non-negotiables.

All right, non-negotiable number one is keep promises to yourself. This one is super simple, and everyone knows it, but everyone overlooks it. So, you might think, "Oh, I want to be Mr. Olympia," but you can't even go to the gym consistently. You can't even wake up at the same time. You can't even make three meals a day. So, be able to crack those goals down, and just becoming someone who, no matter what you say, something that you're going to do. That doesn't need to mean that you say these crazy things when you do these crazy things. At the beginning, it could just mean that you say less, and you're just teaching yourself that whatever I say gets done, and I keep whatever I say the promise to myself, no matter what. Every single time you make a decision to do something, and you don't do it, you're making it harder the next time to hold yourself accountable to that decision. It's truly like training a muscle. When you do something because you said you were going to do it, you get stronger in that. And when you don't, the next time you do it, your body's like, "Oh, last time I didn't do it, so I'm less likely to do it this time." When you're constantly negotiating with yourself, all you're doing is building doubt in yourself. You want to build confidence, it comes from keeping your word, and saying it's what you're going to do. That's only done through action, and it just starts with the small things. So, break your goals down, make sure you can execute on anything you're saying you're going to go do, and then move forward onto the big things.

All right, non-negotiable number two is get your house in order. I don't necessarily mean that in the sense of have a clean home all the time. Should be organized and feel structured, but I mean that is more so with your personal relationships, your family, your wife, your children. If those things are falling apart or crumbling, nothing else in your life is going to be operating at a level of which you want it to. If you're not operating from a place of peace in your home, you're going to be operating from a place of survival and it will not be your best self. When my relationships are set and safe, I just feel so much more confident to go to the world and do more. And when I'm in a hard time with those relationships, my focus just isn't there. I can't think, I don't feel safe, I don't feel as confident, and nothing feels as good in my heart or my mind to be functioning. I also am a firm believer that when your relationships in your home is in order, you're more willing to take risks because you have that safety net. Going out to the world chasing external success, you know these things of the fear of failure. When you come home you have that rock, you have the anchor, you have that safe bed to return to, where no matter what you come home to something consistent. And that is just like a safety net underneath you where you can just jump and launch yourself into the big goals, but you know you're always falling back in that safety net because that is the most important thing in your life. The massive misconception that people think of family and relationships can take away from your capacity to work more and to work harder, but the truth is when it's a strong foundation, all it does is fill you with energy, passion, and purpose to be better and drive yourself forward and do even more. The reality is your home is either giving you peace or it's taking away your capacity, and there's no way around it.

All right, non-negotiable number three. This is one of the biggest because it's very overarching. It's be a student of yourself. One of my favorite quotes that I've heard is Carl Jung. He says, "Until you make the unconscious conscious, it will control your life and you'll call it fate." We just think fate is directing our life of where we're going, but it's just because we're unconscious of the parts of us that are actually leading us to where we're going. And this is one of the biggest focuses of my bodybuilding career because after a while, especially in bodybuilding hypertrophy training, it's relatively simple. You know how to train, you know how to eat, and then it's not so much further on what to do, but what drives you to actually do it and to do it consistently. I feel like the deepest work of a long-term success, because it's one thing to hit something and achieve it, to win one Olympia, to find the girl, to do all these things, to get the girl, but to like marry them for 40 years, to win six Olympias, to win eight Olympias like the goat, then you need to understand what's driving you. Is it a lack of self-worth? Are you finding your value and your identity in everything you're doing? Is it pure love for what you're doing? Is it like anger that you're trying to prove back to someone that you can achieve something they said you couldn't? There are so many different reasons that could be driving you, and if you're blind to what it is and you're like, "It's because I just love the sport." But realistically, if you didn't have the success or the stage or the camera or whatever it may be, you wouldn't be doing it because you're doing it for the attention or this or that, and that's going to drive you into the wrong way if you're not being honest with yourself. If you can actually understand what's driving you, then you don't have to obey it blindly. You can feel something like fear or a draw to something. All of a sudden, you wake up 5 years later and you don't know where you are because you've been pulled by this blind force you're unaware of. You can feel fear pulling you somewhere, and because you understand it's controlling you and where it's coming from and what it's protecting you from, then you don't have to listen to it.

All right, non-negotiable number four is standards over feelings. I always think of the Olympia in this where I had a standard that no matter what I was going to show up and do the best and I was going to get on that Olympia stage no matter what got in my way. And I had so many injuries, I had all these things what went wrong. My second last year I remember I tore my lat at the gym. I found out Courtney was pregnant, had all this personal crazy stuff going on and it was just a mess. I was in Canada, I called Courtney I was like I just tore my lat, I'm not doing this Olympia, blah blah blah. I'm like I'm quitting, I can't do this. And I was just like done. But I didn't let that control me because even though you feel like quitting it doesn't mean quitting is the right thing to do. So what I did with my standard was that I was going to get on the Olympia stage and I was going to give my all. So I did that. I had a day where I felt like crap and then I got back to work the next day because that was my standard, not what I was feeling. The big thing is you don't want to decide how you're going to show up in the middle of an emotion. You need to decide right now or at the beginning of this next week or getting into a big season how you're going to show up when things inevitably go wrong. Can't wait until it's time to be like, oh what do I do? You pre-decide when you're motivated, when you're feeling good, when you're at your highest point, your realest self, and then from that moment on those are the standards that you hold, not the decisions you make when you're in a low place.

All right, non-negotiable number five is do hard things intentionally. Hard things show you who you really are. And when life is easy, it's easy to be performative. It's easy to lie to yourself. Then when you sleep eight hours and you eat really good and you rest and you go to the gym, you train hard, you're like, I train hard. But then when I'm in prep and it's like three weeks out of the Olympia eating 1,500 calories, you've done an hour and a half of cardio, your sleep has been trash, you've been doing this for months and you show up to the gym, it's like, do you train hard or do you just train hard when it's comfortable? It really allows you to see who you really are in those hard moments because when life is easy, you can play pretend. This is more of a spiritual belief as well, but I've always believed that if you don't choose to willingly do hard things in order to grow, life will present you with circumstances that are very difficult to make you grow. So, unless you're choosing to face those things that you're hiding from or seeing reality and becoming a better person from it, life is going to feel like it's just coming down on you and all this stuff keeps happening to you and not for you. But, when you flip that perspective like I'm going to put myself in the hard situation so I grow, I see myself, I see the truth, and I'm able to be real and honest and grow into a truly who I'm meant to be, then life starts working for you, not against you. I feel like a big thing to understand in this is that comfort isn't inherently bad, it's just not the right thing to project your life towards. If your goal is like I just want things to be easy, I just can't wait till life gets easier, I don't want to be comfortable, and then you're just seeking comfort, that's when you start living in those lies, and you start living on social media, indulging in food and doing the easy things that feel good in the moment or short-term gratification. And with that delayed gratification, your future is going to end up like trash. I learned this from my favorite book ever, Man's Search for Meaning, is to find meaning in your suffering. So, never search for suffering, search for hard things to make yourself grow. But, when life presents you with something that you have no control over that is difficult, the intention that you can put behind that is choosing how you show up in it. So, if something happens in your family, something really bad is happening, you can choose how you show up and find meaning in how you face that suffering. And that is the intentional doing of the hardship within that that allowed you to find meaning and more positivity rather than just being stuck in wallowing of your own pain. Choose to do hard things that will align you with the person that you truly want to be.

All right, non-negotiable number six is build identity over achievement. And this isn't one that I even still do perfectly, and I certainly didn't from the beginning, and most people don't who achieve a lot of things, but I do believe it's important to figure out eventually. And it's this idea of not attaching your identity to the achievement for many reasons, but one of the big ones is your ability to view failure as feedback rather than identity. And then when you start to like fail something or feel like you're going to lose something and it feels like you're losing yourself, that can push you into shame and diminish your energy and motivation and actually makes it harder to progress. It can push you forward for a while, like I want to be better, but eventually it just burns you out. Whereas when you can see failure as feedback, it's just a reason to course correct and put yourself back in the right direction and do things better. But if your identity is attached to that achievement, then anything taking away from that identity is taking away from yourself and starts to feel like you are losing yourself. This one was super important for me to learn because there were moments where I had like a big injury that I thought wasn't going to allow me to compete and I felt like I was losing everything because I wasn't going to be able to achieve. The goal is to have failure teach you, success encourage you, but neither of them define who you are. I feel like the big takeaway for me is that if success and achievement defines you, then failure feels like death. Literally, like it's very dramatic, but that term of an ego death, definitely felt that numerous times in my life, retiring as well, parts of me still did, still do. And it's just being able to understand and look inside yourself consistently to find that balance so that when life hits you with that stuff, are you able to keep moving forward and use it as feedback or are you going to let it make you decline and let that bullet through and lose all your motivation?

All right, last but not least, non-negotiable number seven is to have something bigger than yourself. Bodybuilding was an extremely selfish sport. It's very much just thinking about yourself, your sleep, your food, your recovery, it's always thinking about yourself and how you look. Very vain, it's very selfish. I did try and create my content and tell my story and give back in a way with the intention of inspiring others to be better versions of themselves because a selfish mindset is a lot more fragile than a loving mindset. It doesn't have to be something as big as changing the world. It's more so a mindset of what can I give rather than what I can get. And there's large pursuits that I feel drawn to and want to do, but right now my thing bigger than me is my family. I truly want to take myself out of that selfish bodybuilding mode of myself, turn myself into a more loving serving father in order to serve my family and make sure that their future and their present is as capable, as safe, as strong as best as they could possibly be and that is my responsibility and that drives me so hard. Not like I need to be a good dad because I want to feel good about myself. It's no, I want to serve my family because that is more important than how I feel about myself and there's so much more energy and fuel and passion that comes from that. I believe that the strongest version of yourself is not the one that gets the most attention, but the one that can carry the most responsibility. I've been blessed with a lot of gifts and I've always believed the biblical quote, "To whom much is given, much is expected." People are given gifts, but they also have responsibilities to bear with that and I believe that that is an opportunity to give back and to use that for others. So, that's kind of like the next pursuit of my life right now, which is fueling me into being more excited and that's what Standard is really all about. It's about teaching men about discipline, carry that over into other areas of their life, avoiding the easy comforts of life that make you anxious thinking about yourself, pulling you into dark holes, creating positive habits that are delayed gratification that make you into the man that you want to be rather than achieving something short-term that makes you feel good. I really really really believe that and some part of me wished that I learned it when I was younger, but you learn it through your own journey and now I want to be able to share what I've taken from what I've been through in life and be able to inspire others to do the same and hopefully avoid some of the pains that I've gone through myself. So, that's kind of one of the big missions right now in life. Still defining how and what, but that's what it's about.

So, yeah. Those are my seven non-negotiables on a bulletproof mindset. Again, bulletproof mindset, not success. If you're creating an identity on someone who can achieve things, who can be things, who can serve, who can do positive, rather than just achieving X, I just want to win Olympia. What's going to take you farther? What's more fragile? I think building an identity that is resilient and bulletproof is more important than just a singular goal. I appreciate you guys watching. So, until next time. Goodbye.
