What is up, YouTube? Today I'm going to be taking you guys through my exact morning routine that won me six Olympias. It varied a little bit, of course, over the years, but this was like the consistent things that I did that really helped me just lock in and focus for the day. And for prep, back then it was about achieving the Olympia. Now it's about trying to become who I am. Currently 5:30 in the morning. Wake up before the children are awake, when the birds are chirping, before the things are stirring. Your mind just feels a little bit calmer.

I always start with a little morning walk in the light. And then do a little cardio, so I'm going to take a walk on the treadmill and I'll update you over there.

What's motivating you to bring the morning routine back? I feel like when I retired from competing, I stopped doing a lot of things that made me better. Not because they weren't working, but just because I didn't have the Olympia. And it just became so clear to me that it was a lot easier to have discipline when you had a huge goal and when you had a deadline. But actually choosing to have discipline just for the sake of building self-respect and self-trust and just feeling more organized and like centered and aligned in your life is so important to everyone. That moment of alignment at the beginning of the day, I think, just sets you up for success and it's so easy to, for me, without the deadline of the Olympia, to just be like, "I don't need to do it." But then I don't feel as good within myself and I'm like, "Why?" And it's this slow drift away from like, "I feel good because I'm doing all these things." Oh, well, "I don't need to set an alarm anymore. I don't need to take a cold shower. I don't need to go for a walk outside. I don't need to do these things." That one little thing at a time, slowly you just like drift away from like that confident, self-trusted man that I used to be into like this kind of like lesser version, I guess. And it happens so slowly. And that's what people don't realize, it happens to anybody. So, you got to choose every day to lock back in. And the morning is like the vehicle for that.

One of the coolest things I feel like I used to do that I didn't talk about a whole lot was when I would do my cardio. The first 20-25 minutes I wouldn't allow myself to look at my phone minus this specific 24/7 meditation music that was on YouTube. I'd put my headphones in, put my hands here, close my eyes, and I'd walk. And I would visualize the point where I was at in prep all the way to stepping on stage and giving my speech. And I would just sit there and I would walk through what each prep would look like. I would watch myself waking up every week, looking better, looking on point, getting to the Olympia, training with my coach, going to the check-ins, going to the weigh-ins, going to the press conference, being backstage, getting tan, like all the things I would just visualize. I'd get to the point where I'd be on stage and I would hear Bob Cicherillo calling my name like "and still, your two, three, four, five, six time Mr. Olympia." And I would get chills on the treadmill. And then I would see myself going up there and giving a speech. And I'd have tears coming down my eyes sometimes. Just sitting here like this by myself at 5:00 a.m. doing cardio, not just visualizing but literally feeling what it would feel like to win the Olympia that year. And then the therapist would walk me through doing it to try to ease my anxiety and nerves that I had about going on stage. And it worked so well. When your body feels like it's experienced something emotionally even before it's actually happened, you just feel more confident doing it and you're just more likely to achieve it. It's hard to explain in words how strong that felt.

It's something I never really took to apply to other areas of my life unless when I had like a big talk or a seminar or Q&A or something. Sometimes I would do that, but it's something I'm realizing that you can apply to the small things in life. You're like, "Why can't I change this? Why am I reactive in this situation? Why am I anxious in this situation?" If you really can access that part of yourself that is confident in the situation, it'll show up how you want and feel what it feels like and walk yourself through that. It's kind of like you've already done it when you got up there. So, that was a huge way that helped me also get through 25 minutes of cardio. I open my eyes and I'm like, "Holy, it's been 25 minutes. Cool." Then I'd throw on some anime and watch Naruto or Demon Slayer or something cool, and that was my reward for getting to that point, and then I'd go off to breakfast.

The best time of day was stepping off that thing, being done an hour. Usually I only got to an hour at once of cardio, and then I'd go and eat breakfast. You're just like, "Finally, food." Stomach rumbling on there. These were before the time that bodybuilders were taking GLP-1s and we just had to suffer in our hunger.

What's your morning smoothie looking like these days? Morning smoothie. I have a scoop of protein. I would do dark chocolate probably 95% of the days in my prep. Some creatine, some fiber, a banana, ice. Later on prep the banana got taken away, but I'm not in prep so I put the banana in there. And then I would make this, and then I would make a little bit of oats and eggs.

Is there like a macro that you prioritize in the morning? Not really honestly. In prep specifically by the end everything was just low carb, low fat. And making sure I got like 50g of protein in like six times a day at least. I would try and just put my carbs around when I was training. So I didn't always train right after in the morning. Sometimes I would train like three meals later in the day so I had a little bit more food in me. And like peak prep when I was exhausted it would be like breakfast, nap, meal, train. Which is crazy to wake up, eat breakfast, and then take a nap. But I was so tired.

Would you say this morning routine is applicable to anyone? I feel like it definitely could be. If you're doing 45 minutes of cardio walking on the treadmill in the morning and a workout, probably not. That's like 2 hours plus of exercise for the average person is not really feasible. But the idea of waking up, having some time alone, going for a walk, moving your body, getting some sunlight, getting your water, and a quick meditation, having intentional things to do, and eating the same thing every day. I think one of the most important aspects of it is the fact that it's a routine so that you're doing the same thing all the time and that was the easiest thing in prep when you're tired and get fatigued. Taking the thinking out of things made it easier. Life, everyone's busy, chaos every day, things change. If you have something that never changes, you have a routine, you don't have to think about it, you just go through the motions and it builds you into momentum for the day. I think that's supportive of everything in your life.

This is exactly how you should set it up. I have my oatmeal, my shake, and my eggs. I put my phone case like this and I turn my phone and I'm just sitting here eating breakfast. Every single morning, my whole morning would be like, "No, I'm on my phone until that point in cardio where I would flip it on and then I would rip through the rest of that episode at breakfast and that was the morning, essentially.

There's like a famous quote about starting your day off with making your bed in the morning and that being your first win of the day. Do you feel like that's the most meaningful thing to you about your morning routine or is it more about structure or something else? For me it feels more like structure as well as that concept of when you tell yourself you're going to do something and then you're like, "Oh, I don't really want to do it," then you do it anyway. So, you're strengthening that muscle in your mind to be like, "I do the things I tell myself I was going to do for long-term delayed gratification, not for immediate comfort." I think just starting your day with that message to yourself. Like, I do the thing that aligns with my values that is going to get me to the goal that I want rather than the thing that is immediately comfortable and easy right now. That's like the cold shower, the cardio you don't want to do, getting up from your alarm when it's like, "Oh, I just want to snooze this."

And I feel like for me now it's understanding that I don't need an Olympia to live like that. Whereas before, I feel like achievement was my big value that I was chasing. Like, I want to achieve. I want to win the Olympia. So, I'm aligning my actions with that. And now, the goal is general alignment, which means I have a set of standards that I live by and I align myself with them because it's who I am. So, that transition of like, I'm doing something for achievement versus I'm doing something because it's who I am, it's part of my identity. I feel like that's lasting. And maybe it may not be as dramatic, but that's something that's actually sustainable to fill you up and drive you and you build things that you realize make you feel good. You sit back and you actually define, what are the standards that are important to me? What values do I want to uphold? And am I actually, are my actions actually aligning with them? Or am I leaning too much into the comfortable easy thing like sleeping in, eating whatever I want, skipping cardio, warm showers.

The morning routine is not half the battle. It's just a little message to get the day started the right way. Now, we're going to go work out. Today is a general upper body day. Still in my little fixing my body phase right now, so little shoulders, little bicep, little triceps with a little bit of a pump in there, but in huge stretched positions just to really strengthen them in the right ways.

When does taking it easy become laziness? I feel like it becomes lazy when you lose control of it. When things aren't intentional. Like, when people are like "Oh, I worked really hard today. If I go home and I'm on my phone for 10 minutes, cool." But, if they're like, "Oh, I'm on my phone way too much. I scroll Instagram too much." And then an hour later they're on their phone and scrolling Instagram. And they're like, "You know what? I worked hard today. It's fine." It's when the justifications don't match what your values are. When you're in a state of feeling good, everyone has states of being motivated versus not. When you're motivated, easy to make good decisions. When you're not, your actions require more discipline. And if your actions in the moments of lower motivation don't align with your desires of higher motivation, to me that's when it becomes laziness. So, it's a matter of intention rather than what you do. Like, if someone runs an ultra-marathon, they do 150 miles, and then they sit in bed for a week, they're not being lazy. That was their thing. But, if you have a just a lazy piece who sits in bed for a week, it is. It's just about sitting down with yourself in moments of motivation and feeling good, understanding what your values are, aligning your actions with those, and then in the moments that are really hard, still aligning your actions with your values is not laziness, in my opinion.

To wrap on today's video, I feel like this was a reflection of what my morning routine was like that I used to win Olympias. The actual staple of what I did were just these really simple things that you can do in a hotel, in an apartment, in whatever. You can just get it done wherever. It's just really about choosing to do that thing in the morning, choosing to wake up maybe 30 minutes early to start your day properly rather than just jumping into chaos when you roll out of bed, being late, jumping in the shower, grab some food, run out the door, go to work, and then your day is just repeated and over. Giving yourself just that moment of stillness in the morning to slow down, gather yourself and your thoughts. Honestly, there's so many things wrong with our world right now, but just the ability to slow down is like no one has it. Even me, I've had to delete social media off my phone. Redownload it, post it, and delete it because it's not about "Oh, what more discipline do you have?" You have to create environments that you can actually thrive in. Give yourself the opportunity to wake up early. Delete the apps off your phone. Force schedule in time to do nothing. You have to intentionally choose to do these things. It's not just like, "I'm going to try harder and have more discipline." You truly need a system to set yourself up for success. Or you're not going to. And I have not been doing that since returning from the Olympias. Slowly drifted away from the system that I had that allowed me to win Olympias. And now I'm rebuilding a system so that I can become who I want to be. Not to achieve something. So, to wrap on this video, thank you guys for watching. See you next time.
