I've been thinking a lot lately about how we live in an age of distraction and how people genuinely spend more time looking at a screen than thinking about their own reality. They always make excuses like I don't have time, I'll start next week. Sometimes you don't even have the ability to make excuses because you're too consumed in distraction to even know what you're not doing with your life. Odds are you're probably no different. You probably known exactly what you need to do for years and odds are things probably aren't going to change unless you can actually fix the root cause.

Why do you think so many people watch other people achieve things and won't actually go out there and do it themselves? I feel like it's easier to get that emotion that you like feeling from ambition from watching other people rather than having to do it yourself. You continuously are consuming someone else rather than yourself doing something. You can almost just get away with that quick fake dopamine hit that you get and I feel like people lie to themselves that doing nothing is better than doing something bad or doing nothing is better than failing because failing is terrifying. And then in doing the nothing they watch other people do it so they can at least kind of like keep a lie to themselves. And then you're in this really dark place where you're forced to face the truth and you're like, "Oh wow, like I haven't been doing things that I know I should be doing." Being good or fulfilled or whatever doesn't just come obviously from not doing good things. But when you know there are things that you should be doing that are good for you, good for people around you and you don't do them, that's bad. The dream is really easy to love when it hasn't cost you anything yet. And before you've taken action, it hasn't cost you anything. I don't even think it's necessary that people are lazy. I just think they're addicted to the idea of potential. Because it's super easy to sit there and say, "I have the potential to do it, but I just haven't done it yet." Versus, "No, I tried and I failed because I'm not good enough to do that." That's a gut punch right there.

Where would you say the line is between consuming content and letting your life pass by and actually being motivated and inspired by what you're consuming? I would say that's a loose word, humility. Because your ability to be honest with yourself, which I think is a huge part of humility. So, if you're lying to yourself when you're consuming content being like, "This is educating me, motivating me, pushing me towards doing my thing." But you're not actually doing the thing, only you know. So, you need the humility to be honest with yourself with that. And it's the intentionality behind what you're doing. Are you intentionally like, "Okay, in my clear mind, feeling good and motivated, this is what I'm going to do in the day to get me to where I want to be. I have a block of 30 minutes where I'm going to consume content that will either build my energy up, educate me, and drive me towards that." Or are you just like, "Oh, I got 10 minutes between this meeting and that meeting. I'm just going to mindlessly scroll." Or you stuck there for an hour? I think it's just the ability to be honest with yourself.

What do you think in your experience stops most people from starting? A lot of things, but top two that come to mind, one, most dramatic answer would be ignorance. I think people are ignorant to the fact of how important and the magnitude of the reality that life is so short and that we're going to die and they just think they have more time to do it. And they know it, but they don't understand it and believe it in their hearts enough to actually take action on it, which to me is proof that they don't really know it. Because if someone sat you down and you could really sit there and believe like you have one chance to do something. And it is going to be the most important thing that you ever do for your entire existence. And all you have to do is put your best effort into it, and it'll be fruitful, be fulfilling, it'll be amazing. You'd be like, "Well, duh, I'm going to do it." But that's what your life is, but people don't understand that. So, one day they're going to die and they're going to sit there and be like, "Did I give everything I had?" Probably not. You only have one shot. You're all in on life. So, you might as well make it the most spectacular thing that you can possibly make it.

Which brings me to point number two, which is the other thing holding them back is their self-image. I'm a huge believer in the idea that you have an inherited self-image about yourself that comes from how you were raised. Your brain was formed watching people do things and that became your reality of what's possible and what's normal. Next thing you know, you have these belief systems, these limiting beliefs from your past that make you think you're not capable of more. And it's very hard to break that self-image. Because over time, it becomes what you're comfortable with. It becomes the people you surround yourself with. That's what they know you for. So, to be able to break that is like a form of death, realistically. When people talk about an ego death, that's breaking your self-image because to you, that was the self that you created to fit into an environment. As humans we're built to fit into an environment, have a community so we don't go out and die. So, to let go of that feels like you're going to die. But we live in a modern day where if people are holding you back, you can move on and find better people to support you. Because what you believe in your mind is possible is not true. It's just what you've learned from the past. It's not objective reality. It's subjective ideas. So, you got to break past that. Make your own reality.

Why do you think people would rather play it safe than take risks chasing their dreams? So, it comes down to fear. They're afraid of many things. They're afraid of failure. And I think in that sense, if you're not looking at things, again, you can be ignorant. But what you don't realize is that if you're not aligning yourself with anything, then you're just always failing and you don't realize that until it's too late. Most people do not have a stable sense of self-worth, so they attach it to things around themselves. Myself included. Done this my whole life. Working on it still. But when you attach your self-worth to something you are working on, then that failure feels like your self-worth is diminished. So when people don't have that stable sense of self-worth, they're much more afraid to actually go out and take action. It's easier to say people are afraid of failure and then there's that famous quote from Coach Carter, "Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate, it's that we are powerful beyond measure." If you accept that you are powerful beyond measure and that you are capable of much more, what you are also admitting is that you are currently a failure. Or you are currently failing. So instead of sitting there being like, I'm capable of so much more than I'm doing. I have a 4-hour screen time. What if I spent 4 hours of my day working my ass off towards a goal because someone else is doing it? I want this thing, but someone else is working way harder than me. If I believe I'm capable of that, well then in my position right now, looking back at the last 5 years of my life I'm like, "What was I doing? I just wasted all that time doing nothing." But unless you can look at that reality and use guilt as feedback to push yourself forward rather than the shame as identity, you're going to be stuck. So you got to realize you are capable of way more than you know. You're just afraid to admit it. That's going to suck. It's going to hurt. It's going to be embarrassing to look back at your life, but you need to be able to sit in that embarrassment and look at yourself and be like, "I am embarrassed of who I used to be. That's why I'm not going to be that person anymore. It's time for me to change my life and actually take action."

What does it cost long-term if you keep acting from a position of fear? Everything. Literally everything. I feel like it's obvious to think if you sit on the sideline your whole life, it's a direct path to a hollow, empty life. I also think people do not understand that getting things done, and discipline in general, is a perishable skill. I have learned this myself as a slap in the face since retiring from the Olympia. Like, cool, I can say I did all these things that I'm capable of discipline and holding myself accountable for a long period of time and accomplishing incredible things, but unless I'm putting those things into action, my discipline is fading. Entropy rules our world. If you're not actively trying to grow or move forward, you're getting worse. There is no standing still. Standing still means everything you want is moving away from you. There's two things from the Bible that I pulled inspiration from. The idea that those who have more will be given more in abundance and those who have less will have it all taken away from them. Essentially it's saying, if you have more and you do more with it, you're going to get more. You're going to be rewarded for enjoying and appreciating and putting into action the fruit that you've been given. And if you have a little bit and you sit there and you don't take action on it, you will lose even that little bit because that's just the way the universe works. If you have the potential, take responsibility of that, take action on it, put the pressure on yourself of what that means to progress and move forward, and then you will be given more. It doesn't have to be perfect. You don't have it all figured out. You just need to start taking action. You just need to understand that what you have you should be grateful for the little bit that you do have. Use it and you will get more from it. You can't sit still, otherwise you're literally falling behind.

What's the thing that people are really protecting by staying in silence? The life that they currently know. I feel like they're protecting themselves from the fear of losing what they think is everything. And I'll go back to an example of my life on this. When I was in high school through university, loved to party, going out with the boys was priority number one. We're just having a good time. And when I had my bodybuilding career started to take off and I realized it was taking away from that, I still lived in a house with five guys who partied three to four times a week, up late, sleeping in, eating whatever they wanted. And when I decided that I wanted to get to the Olympia and then win an Olympia and then take it further and further, I had to make the decision that that life that I knew, the partying, those friends, those people, my brothers who I love, and I had such a good time with, I had to choose in the middle of it, in the peak, at the age of 20, to step away from all that and let go of all that, to move across the country, to leave those friends behind, for them to go out without me, to be sleeping in bed at 8:00 p.m. while I hear them partying downstairs, to be letting go of all that. And it's scary because it's all that you know. It feels like you're losing your friends. Not everyone's going to support you in your goals, and it can make you feel extremely alone. You feel like, "I want to change this stuff. I want to get fit. I'm 200 lbs overweight. Okay, well, I'm going to go to the gym." That's not a change in your life. That's one small habit. You have to change everything about you. You have to let go of everything that made you into that person now to become someone new. Otherwise, it's not going to happen. So, what people are holding onto, what they're protecting themselves from is loss of identity, loss of life that they currently know. The only way to change is to let go.

How do you solve for people being complacent and not taking risks in their life? I feel like this is always that debate of whether you need to take action first or believe you can first. Because it's hard to take action if you don't believe you can, but you don't believe you can until you take action. So, it's like a chicken or the egg scenario. The reality is that you have to want to be bad. You have to switch your mindset of like, "Oh, this is embarrassing." to "No, I actually want to be bad at this." Because being bad at something means I'm taking action. You can't be bad at something you're not doing. Sitting on the couch doesn't show you that you're bad at tennis. You have to get on the court and try and play tennis to be bad at tennis. But from that point of action, you're at least at a starting point, which allows for progress. When I first started bodybuilding, I knew I was getting in the gym. I could train alone at hours when no one's there until I was good. Then I could train at busier times. I kind of worked my way up into these things. Eating and all this stuff is done in private. You can practice posing in private. The training you can go to a gym when it's empty, but stepping on stage, there's no hiding from anyone from that. So, when I got to my first bodybuilding competition, I was backstage with my posing trunks on underneath, just terrified. I was like, "Oh my god, didn't even know how to tan." I'm like, "What, do I have to get naked? What do I do?" So much anxiety. Then I put my clothes back on and sitting backstage and I was a junior in men's open bodybuilding and I was like, why am I doing this? I don't know what I'm doing. I hadn't practiced posing in front of anyone. I got on stage and I blacked out. I don't remember being on stage. I got off and I was like, I think I literally hit every pose like this. Just deer in headlights. And it scared me because it was putting myself in a very vulnerable position of which I wasn't felt ready for, but I made myself do it by taking small actions before of getting to the gym when at least no one was there, of eating the meals when no one was around, of proving to myself I'm acting like a bodybuilder. So I'm going to get on a bodybuilding stage even if I don't feel like it in that moment.

The end of the day it sounds trite, but you don't have to do the first step perfect. If you want to be a bodybuilder, find a gym that's empty at 9:00 p.m. at night and go train at night when no one's around. And do that for a while. And then just see what happens from there. You just have to take a single step forward, do something other than sitting on your phone scrolling at home, wasting your life away. Because if you look at anyone that you look up to and imagine them at home just scrolling on Instagram, they're not doing that. You got to get up and take action before you believe you can and then start to believe you can.

I feel like the one thing in order to push for action and instill belief, because if you can combine those two things, that's what you need right now. If you do one thing literally tonight, sit down and define your future self. Or if you can't think of yourself at that, define like your ideal man of the person who could achieve the goals that you want to do. What is he working towards and how does he act? What are his values, his belief systems? Redefine what this man is and then define what he's capable of. And if you go through all this stuff and you read it, you might begin to get excited about getting this character in your mind. You're like, he could have accomplished even more than I could have thought that I wanted to accomplish if he did these things. Well, then start doing those things in your day. It could be the smallest things. Is he skipping the gym, sleeping in late, eating shitty food, all these things? Probably not. So, define what this person's values are, and then take action on it. I've honestly done it before in therapy in different ways, and then it inspired me to do it myself in other ways, and I want to do it again now that my life has changed so much. So, I'm a believer in that kind of stuff. Be able to visualize and define the person you want to be to get where you want to go. So, big thing, but at the end of the day, stop wasting your life sitting around watching other people live your life. Go live it yourself.
